doc: nRF Machine learning app: restructured the doc (#14096)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/machine_learning/app_desc.rst

For example, the configuration files for the Thingy:53 are defined in the :file:`applications/machine_learning/configuration/thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp` directory.

The following configuration files can be defined for any supported board:

* :file:`prj_<build_type>.conf` - Kconfig configuration file for a :ref:`custom build type <modifying_build_types>`.
  To support a given build type for the selected board, you must define the configuration file with a proper name.
  See :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app_configuration_build_types` for more information.
* :file:`app.overlay` - DTS overlay file specific for the board.
  Defining the DTS overlay file for a given board is optional.
* :file:`_def` files - These files are defined separately for modules used by the application.
  You must define a :file:`_def` file for every module that requires it and enable it in the configuration for the given board.
  The :file:`_def` files that are common for all the boards and build types are located in the :file:`applications/machine_learning/configuration/common` directory.

> The nRF Machine Learning application introduces application-specific Kconfig options that can be used to simplify an application configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nRF Machine Learning application introduces application-specific Kconfig options that you can use to simplify the application configuration.
```

* MCUboot bootloader with serial recovery and multi-image update.
* Static configuration of :ref:`partition_manager`.
* DFU over-the-air using :term:`Simple Management Protocol (SMP)` over Bluetooth.

See :ref:`ug_thingy53` for detailed information about the mentioned features.

The nRF53 DK has a J-Link debug IC that can be used to program the firmware.
Alternatively, firmware can be updated over MCUboot serial recovery or DFU over-the-air using Simple Management Protocol over Bluetooth.
Keep in mind that if you use bootloader to update firmware, the new firmware must be compatible with used bootloader and partition map.

The nRF5340 DK uses RTT as the logger's backend.
The RTT logs can be easily accessed, because the DK has a built-in SEGGER chip.

Custom model requirements
=========================

The default application configurations rely on pre-trained machine learning models that can be automatically downloaded during the application build.
If you want to train and deploy a custom machine learning model using `Edge Impulse Studio`_, you need a user account for the Edge Impulse Studio web-based tool.

> The user account is not needed to perform predictions using the pre-trained models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You do not need a user account to perform predictions using the pre-trained models.
```

Data forwarding requirements
============================

To forward the collected data using `Edge Impulse's data forwarder`_, you must install the Edge Impulse CLI.

> See `Edge Impulse CLI installation guide`_ for instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the `Edge Impulse CLI installation guide`_ for instructions.
```

Nordic UART Service requirements
--------------------------------

> If you want to forward data over Nordic UART Service (NUS), you need an additional development kit that is able to run the :ref:`central_uart` sample.

Reviewer: Link to NUS (nus_service_readme)

Check the sample Requirements section for the list of supported development kits.
The sample is used to receive data over NUS and forward it to the host computer over UART.
See `Testing with Thingy:53`_ for how to test this solution.

Requirements
************

The application supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

The available configurations use only built-in sensors or the simulated sensor signal.
You do not need to connect any additional components to the board.

.. include:: /includes/tfm.txt

User interface
**************

The application supports a simple user interface.
You can control the application using predefined buttons, while LEDs are used to display information.

Buttons
=======

The application supports a button that is used to switch between data forwarding and running the machine learning model.

> You can trigger the change by pressing and holding the button for longer than 5 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To trigger the change, press and hold the button for longer than five seconds.
```

.. note::

>    If a given configuration supports Bluetooth, then two sequences of the button press and release in a short time interval, shortly after application boot, removes the Bluetooth bonds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If a given configuration supports Bluetooth, two sequences of the button press and release in a short time interval, right after application boot, removes the Bluetooth bonds.
```

* Thingy:53:

  * The **SW3** button switches between data forwarding and running the machine learning model.

* nRF52840 and nRF5340 DKs:

  * **Button 1** switches between data forwarding and running a machine learning model.
  * **Button 3** changes the signal generated by the simulated sensor.

LEDs
====

The application uses one LED to display the application state.
The LED displays either the state of data forwarding or the machine learning prediction results.
You can configure the LED effect in the application configuration files.

If the application uses the simulated sensor signal, it uses another LED to display the effect that represents the signal generated by the simulated sensor.
The application defines common LED effects for both the machine learning results and the simulated sensor signal.

By default, the application uses the following LED effects:

* Thingy:53 displays the application state in the RGB scale using **LED1**.

  * If the device is returning the machine learning prediction results, the LED uses the following predefined colors:

    * ``rotate`` - Red
    * ``updown`` - Green
    * ``tap`` - Blue
    * Anomaly - Purple

>     If the machine learning model is running but it has not detected anything yet or the ``idle`` state is detected, the LED is blinking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the machine learning model is running but has not detected anything yet or the ``idle`` state is detected, the LED is blinking.
```

    * LED blinks rapidly if it is connected and is actively forwarding data.

* Both nRF5340 DK and nRF52840 DK use monochromatic LEDs to display the application state.
  The **LED1** displays the application state, and the **LED2** displays the signal generated by the simulated sensor.

  * If the device is returning the machine learning prediction results, the **LED1** blinks for a predefined number of times and then turns off for a period of time.
    Then the sequence is repeated.
    The machine learning result is represented by the number of blinks:

    * ``sine`` - 1 blink
    * ``triangle`` - 2 blinks
    * ``square`` - 3 blinks
    * ``idle`` - 4 blinks

    If the machine learning model is running but has not detected anything yet or has detected an anomaly, the **LED1** is breathing.
  * If the device forwards data, the **LED1** uses the following blinking patterns:

    * LED blinks slowly if it is not connected.
    * LED blinks with an average frequency if it is connected but is not actively forwarding data.
    * LED blinks rapidly if it is connected and is actively forwarding data.

.. _nrf_machine_learning_app_configuration:

> Configuration

Reviewer 2: Just a suggestion, I don't know what templates say about it, but e.g. nRF Dekstop has a separate page covering configuration: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/applications/nrf_desktop/application_kconfig.html#nrf-desktop-application-specific-kconfig-options
In fact Machine Learning has a few Kconfig files in src/ src/modules and src/utils so maybe there is enough content.

Author: Good point. I will create a new page for the configuration options. We follow the same for nRF5340 Audio applications as well - https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/applications/nrf5340_audio/index.html.

The Kconfig configuration file should be located in subdirectory :file:`child_image/child_image_name` and its name should match the application Kconfig file name, which contains the build type if necessary.
For example, the :file:`applications/machine_learning/configuration/thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp/child_image/hci_ipc/prj.conf` file defines the configuration of Bluetooth HCI RPMsg for ``debug`` build type on the ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` board, while the :file:`applications/machine_learning/configuration/thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp/child_image/hci_ipc/prj_release.conf` file defines the configuration of Bluetooth HCI RPMsg for ``release`` build type.
See :ref:`ug_multi_image` for detailed information about multi-image builds and child image configuration.

.. _nrf_machine_learning_app_requirements_build_types:
.. _nrf_machine_learning_app_configuration_build_types:

nRF Machine Learning build types
================================

The nRF Machine Learning application does not use a single :file:`prj.conf` file.
Before you start testing the application, you can select one of the build types supported by the application.

> Not every board supports both mentioned build types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All boards do not support both mentioned build types.
```

The application supports the following build types:

.. list-table:: nRF Machine Learning build types
   :widths: auto
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Build type
     - File name
     - Supported board
     - Description
   * - Debug (default)
     - :file:`prj.conf`
     - All from `Requirements`_
     - Debug version of the application; can be used to verify if the application works correctly.
   * - Release
     - :file:`prj_release.conf`
     - ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840``
     - Release version of the application; can be used to achieve better performance and reduce memory consumption.
   * - NUS
     - :file:`prj_nus.conf`
     - ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840``
     - Debug version of the application that uses :ref:`nus_service_readme` instead of :ref:`zephyr:uart_api` for data forwarding.
   * - RTT
     - :file:`prj_rtt.conf`
     - ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` and ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns``
     - Debug version of the application that uses RTT for printing logs instead of USB CDC.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`applications/machine_learning`

> The nRF machine learning application is built the same way as any other |NCS| application or sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nRF Machine Learning application is built the same way as any other |NCS| application or sample.
```

Building the default configurations requires an Internet connection, because the machine learning model source files are downloaded from the web during the application build.

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

Selecting a build type
======================

Before you start testing the application, you can select one of the :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app_requirements_build_types`.
See :ref:`modifying_build_types` for detailed steps on how to select a build type.

Providing API key
=================

> If the URI of the Edge Impulse zip file requires providing an additional API key, you can provide it using the following CMake definition: :c:macro:`EI_API_KEY_HEADER`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the URI of the Edge Impulse :file:`.zip` file requires providing an additional API key, you can provide it using the :c:macro:`EI_API_KEY_HEADER` CMake definition.
```

> This definition is set in a similar way as the selected build type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This definition is set in a similar way to the selected build type.
```

For more detailed information about building the machine learning model in the |NCS|, see :ref:`ug_edge_impulse`.

.. tip::
   The nRF Machine Learning application configurations available in the |NCS| do not require providing an API key to download the model.
   The model is downloaded from the web, but no authentication is required.

Testing
=======

After programming the application to your development kit, you can test the nRF Machine Learning application.
You can test running the machine learning model on an embedded device and forwarding data to `Edge Impulse studio`_.
The detailed test steps for the DKs and the Thingy:53 are described in the following subsections.

Application logs
----------------

> In most of the provided debug configurations, the application provides logs through the RTT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most of the provided ``debug`` configurations, the application provides logs through the RTT.
```

   See :ref:`ug_thingy53` for detailed information about working with the Thingy:53.

   You can also use the ``rtt`` configuration to have the Thingy:53 use RTT for logs.

Testing with Thingy:53
----------------------

After programming the application, perform the following steps to test the nRF Machine Learning application on the Thingy:

1. Turn on the Thingy.
   The application starts in a mode that runs the machine learning model.
   The RGB LED is blinking, because no gesture has been recognized by the machine learning model yet.
#. Tap the device.
   The ``tap`` gesture is recognized by the machine learning model.
   The LED color changes to blue, and the LED stays turned on.
#. Move the device up and down.
   The ``updown`` gesture is recognized by the machine learning model.
   The LED color changes to green, and the LED stays turned on.
#. Rotate the device.
   The ``rotate`` gesture is recognized by the machine learning model.
   The LED color changes to red, and the LED stays turned on.
#. Shake the device.
   The machine learning model detects an anomaly.
   The LED color changes to purple, and the LED stays turned on.

> #. Press and hold the button for more than 5 seconds to switch to the data forwarding mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Press and hold the button for more than five seconds to switch to the data forwarding mode.
```

   After the mode is switched, the LED color changes to red, and the LED starts blinking very slowly.
#. Program the :ref:`central_uart` sample to a compatible development kit, for example, the nRF52840 DK.
#. Turn on the programmed device.
   After a brief delay, the Bluetooth® connection between the sample and the Thingy is established.
   The Thingy forwards the sensor readouts over NUS.
   The LED on the Thingy starts to blink rapidly.

> #. Connect to the Bluetooth® Central UART sample with a terminal emulator (for example, PuTTY).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Connect to the sample with a terminal emulator (for example, PuTTY).
```

   See :ref:`putty` for the required settings.
#. Observe the sensor readouts represented as comma-separated values.
   Every line represents a single sensor readout.

>    The Thingy forwards sensor readouts over NUS to the Central UART sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The Thingy forwards sensor readouts over NUS to the sample.
```

Testing with the nRF52840 or nRF5340 DK
---------------------------------------

After programming the application, perform the following steps to test the nRF Machine Learning application on the DK:

1. Turn on the development kit.
   The application starts in a mode that runs the machine learning model.
   Initially, **LED2** displays the LED effect representing ``sine`` wave (1 blink), and **LED1** is breathing, because the signal was not yet recognized by the machine learning model.
   After a brief delay, the machine learning model recognizes the simulated signal.
   **LED1** and **LED2** display the same LED effect.
#. Press **Button 3** to change the generated acceleration signal.
   Right after the signal change, the effects displayed by LEDs are different.
   After a brief delay, the machine learning model recognizes the ``triangle`` wave, and the same effect (2 blinks) is displayed by both LEDs.
#. Press **Button 3** to again change the generated acceleration signal.
   The ``square`` wave (3 blinks) is displayed only by the **LED2**.
   This signal is marked as an anomaly by the machine learning model, and **LED1** starts breathing.

> #. Press and hold **Button 1** for more than 5 seconds to switch to the data forwarding mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Press and hold **Button 1** for more than five seconds to switch to the data forwarding mode.
```

   After the mode is switched, **LED1** starts to blink rapidly.
#. Connect to the development kit with a terminal emulator (for example, PuTTY).
   See :ref:`putty` for the required settings.
#. Observe the sensor readouts represented as comma-separated values.
   Every line represents a single sensor readout.

> #. Turn off PuTTY to ensure that only one program will access data on UART.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Turn off PuTTY to ensure that only one program has access to the data on UART.
```

Optionally, you can also connect to the device using `Edge Impulse's data forwarder`_ and forward data to `Edge Impulse studio`_ (after logging in).
See `Forwarding data to Edge Impulse studio`_ for details.

Forwarding data to Edge Impulse studio
--------------------------------------

To start forwarding data to Edge Impulse studio:

1. Make sure you meet the `Data forwarding requirements`_ before forwarding data to Edge Impulse studio.

> #. Run the ``edge-impulse-data-forwarder`` Edge Impulse command line tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Run the ``edge-impulse-data-forwarder`` Edge Impulse command-line tool.
```

#. Log in to `Edge Impulse studio`_ and perform the following steps:

   a. Select the :guilabel:`Data acquisition` tab.
   #. In the **Record new data** panel, set the desired values and click :guilabel:`Start sampling`.

      .. figure:: /images/ei_data_acquisition.png
         :scale: 50%
         :alt: Sampling under Data acquisition in Edge Impulse studio

         Sampling under Data acquisition in Edge Impulse studio

   #. Observe the received sample data on the raw data graph under the panel.
      The observed signal depends on the acceleration readouts.

      .. figure:: /images/ei_start_sampling.png
         :scale: 50%
         :alt: Sampling example

         Sampling example

.. _nrf_machine_learning_app_porting_guide:

Porting guide
*************

You can port the nRF Machine Learning application to any board available in the |NCS| or Zephyr.

> To do so, create the board-specific directory in :file:`applications/machine_learning/configuration/` and add the application configuration files there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the board-specific directory in :file:`applications/machine_learning/configuration/` and add the application configuration files there.
```
